the spectacled Cobra the Communists of
India's for Cobras the Cobra is the
iconic Indian snake feared and revered
even worshipped throughout the
subcontinent it's bite can deliver a
powerful neurotoxic venom which brings
on paralysis and if untreated death
although not as lethal as the russell's
viper rom reckons that india spectacled
Cobra may account for up to 30% of
snakebite deaths as many as 15,000 per
year it's coming out it's it's already
out so they consider guy basically this
is a smallish Cobra a female probably
laid her eggs through the season so she
she's not really very fat right now
because she's you know just gotten rid
of all her eggs then she goes man you
twisted up and you have your Cobra
Cobras are very common throughout the
whole of India
so why fewer fatalities than the less
common Russell's Viper Ron hopes the
high-speed camera will give some answers
those of us who had a lot of experience
with Cobras have often said that the
cobra doesn't strike open-mouthed rather
he boxes he strikes at you with his
mouth closed he's basically wanting you
to get the heck out of it he doesn't
want to make contact he doesn't seem to
want to bite and that is what is
extremely surprising when you see these
images it's clear from Ron's experiment
that for this Cobra
biting is a last resort it would appear
that this snake offers us every
opportunity to avoid being bitten in
contrast to the Cobra with it's clear
warning to keep away it's the snake you
don't see which presents the bigger
danger
thousands of rural Indians run the risk
of bites to the arms and hands whilst
collecting grass or firewood and it's to
this group that roams next snape poses
the greatest danger it doesn't try to
escape like the Russell's Viper or mock
charge like the Cobra this snake means
business
saw scaled Viper as a biter is second to
none
Rome estimates it causes around 5,000
deaths every year many of which are
children possessing perhaps the fastest
strike of any snake it makes a perfect
candidate for rums
high speed snake lab different from any
of the other snakes is the sauce kill
Viper when this guy strikes he's
striking to bite every time
he strikes with his mouth wide open as
fangs extended and he makes contact
like many vipers it's a well camouflaged
and effective ambush predator it's
common throughout much of India although
most active by night it will bask in the
early morning Sun often bringing it into
contact with people when it comes to
snake bite intent is all and the source
kale viper always strikes to bite
you